Apperta Foundation - Defining an Open Platform

7.3 Managing Content
7.3.1 Defining “Content”
The term “content” (often called “clinical
content) is used to describe the data
elements that make up a health and care
record and the metadata that supports
them (for example, a blood pressure, an
allergy, an assessment, a goal, etc.). These
elements represent the health and care
record in terms of data types, values,
and terminology bindings.The elements
must be computable, open and shareable.
The methodology for defining clinical
content must support the entire lifecycle
of content management, i.e. discovery -->
creation --> peer-review --> publication -->
maintenance.

7.3.2 Sharing of Content Facilitating long term Maintenance
of Content
Making metadata and content open
and shareable not only facilitates
interoperability but also allows the
increasingly large and burdensome task
of its creation and maintenance to be
shared. Sharing the creation of clinical
content will improve quality and reduce
duplication of effort.

from less than 100 that approaches like
FHIR are able to address to nearer 10,000.
This challenge of both content creation
and ongoing maintenance requires new
approaches and global cooperation.13
Sharing perhaps represents the only
way that this workload will be able to be
handled.

7.3.3 Sharing of Content Stimulating innovation by app
developers
Having these elements of content is
also key to enabling new app developers
to innovate without becoming mired
in the complexities of health and care
data. This is a clinical rather than
technical challenge. This piece by Ewan
Davis explains why clinicians rather
than modellers should create clinical
content, drawing on the expertise of
informaticians. The same applies in social
care as it is practitioners not modellers
who need to create and maintain content.

7.3.4 Sharing of Content Stimulating interoperability, and
supporting scalability

Sharing becomes even more important
with the significant increase in the volume
of content arising from the Internet of
Things, Genomics, personalised medicine,
decision support, data analytics, and
population health. This will result in an
explosive growth in the need for shared
computable definitions of clinical content

Current approaches to interoperability
have had limited success, are not scalable
beyond a small set of messages and APIs,
and do not support the needs of new
entrants to the market, particularly when
these require novel content. The previous
narrow focus on system interoperability

32
November 2017

