Apperta Foundation - Defining an Open Platform

6.6.2 Commercial Issues
A legacy vendor may not be able to handle
requests from hundreds of app developers
and a small app developer may find it too
difficult to engage with multiple partner
programmes. Some legacy vendors
may also use their position to obstruct
connections that they do not see as in
their commercial interest.

All systems vendors recognise the
importance of interoperability. The
vendor community as a whole knows
that they can grow the total market size
and thus the opportunity for individual
vendors by creating a better Return
on Investment (ROI) for customers
through interoperability. Indeed, it is the
vendor community that has led most
of the successful work in the area of
interoperability (e.g. IHE, HL7 v2, MIG,
INTEROPen) driven by commercial
imperatives to solve interoperability
issues in order to sell systems.
However, it must be recognised that
many established vendors have business
models reliant on customer lock-in and
will resist opening up their systems in a
way that undermines this core business
approach. While they will be supportive
of providing limited APIs such as those
proposed by INTEROPen, they will resist
more fundamental changes to open up all
of the data in their systems, removing the
commercial benefit they currently gain
through data lock-in.
Many vendors have partner programmes
designed to facilitate third parties
wishing to connect to their systems.
As the number of third parties wishing
to connect grows, this “many-to-many
relationship” creates serious problems.
These problems affect both the vendor and
the third party.

An open platform provider can act as
a broker in this relationship, shifting
control over the decision of who connects,
from the legacy vendor and to the data
controller or data subject. We know from
the GPSoC Programme that giving legacy
vendors too much power (for instance
in who connects and how they connect),
severely restricts interoperability.

6.6.3 Access Agreement and
Information Governance
Finally, once technical and commercial
issues are resolved an app developer still
needs permission to connect from the
data controller of the system to which
they wish to connect. The data controller
needs to establish the bonafides of the
user of any connecting application and
where the connection is being approved
on the basis of the data subject's wishes
(as will often be the case for apps used
by patients), that the data subject has
consented.

26
November 2017

