Apperta Foundation - Defining an Open Platform

An open platform adheres to the following
principles in order to meet the need of all
stakeholders:
1.	 Open Standards Based - The
implementation should be based on
agile open standards7. Any willing
party should be able to use these
standards without charge to build an
independent, compliant instance of the
complete platform;
2.	 Shared Common Information Models
- There should be a set of common
information models8 in use by all
instances of the open platform,
independent of any given technical
implementation;

6.	 Supporting Open Data - Data should
be exposed as needed (subject to good
information governance practice) in
an open, shareable, computable format
in near to real-time. Implementors
may choose to use this format natively
in their persistence (storage) layer of
the open platform itself or meet this
requirement by using mappings and
transformations from some other open
or proprietary format;
7.	 Providing Open APIs - The full
specification of the APIs (the means by
which applications are connected to
the platform) should be freely available.

3.	 Supporting Application Portability
- Applications written to run on one
platform implementation should be
able to run with either trivial or no
change on another platform that has
been independently developed;
4.	 Federatable - It should be possible
to connect any implementation of
the open platform to all others that
were independently developed, in
a federated structure, to allow the
sharing of appropriate information and
workflows between them;

8.	 Operability (as in DevOps9) - The
platform should support the principles
of operability10 (this is all about the
qualities of a systems that enables
applications to operate well throughout
their full life cycle). Software systems
which follow software operability
good practice will tend to be simpler to
operate and maintain, with a reduced
cost of ownership, and almost certainly
fewer operational problems.

5.	 Vendor and Technology Neutral The standards should not depend
on particular technologies or require
components from particular vendors.
Anyone building an implementation of
the open platform may elect to use any
available technology and may choose
to include or exclude proprietary
components;
16
November 2017

